README.md, before:

Project Example Idea 2
Build a memory game

External user’s goal:
Have fun playing the game.

Site owner's goal:
Same as the external users - make a game that you'd enjoy playing yourself.
Potential features to include:
Build a simple single-player pattern-matching memory game.

We encourage you to create your own game, by choosing a set of visual and/or auditory patterns that increase in complexity over the course of the game and challenge the player. Games that you could look at for inspiration include Simon and Bop It.

Provide users with clear explanations on how to play the game and with clear feedback on how they're doing at any stage

User Experience (UX)
### 1. Strategy plane - what are you aiming for and for who
### 2. Scope plane - which features to include based on strategy
|   feature   |   importance   |   feasability   |   totals  |
|:------------|:---------------|:----------------|:----------|
|history      |4               |1                |4          |
|video/audio  |2               |2                |4          |
|gallery      |1               |1                |1          |
|shop         |1               |3                |3          |
|gig list     |1               |2                |2          |
|for hire     |2               |2                |4          |
### 3. Structure plane - how is info structured and logically grouped
### 4. Skeleton plane - info presentation
### 5. Surface plane - finished product look like- colors, typography design element

# Features
### Existing Features
### Features Left to Implement


User stories
First Time Visitor Goals
Returning Visitor Goals
Frequent User Goals

Design
Colour Scheme
Typography
Imagery
Wireframes

Features

Interactive elements

Technologies Used
Languages Used
Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

Testing

W3C Markup Validator - Results
W3C CSS Validator - Results

Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section
First Time Visitor Goals
As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the organisation.

Upon entering the site, users are automatically greeted with a clean and easily readable navigation bar to go to the page of their choice. Underneath there is a Hero Image with Text and a "Learn More" Call to action button.
The main points are made immediately with the hero image
The user has two options, click the call to action buttons or scroll down, both of which will lead to the same place, to learn more about the organisation.
As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily be able to navigate throughout the site to find content.

The site has been designed to be fluid and never to entrap the user. At the top of each page there is a clean navigation bar, each link describes what the page they will end up at clearly.
At the bottom of the first 3 pages there is a redirection call to action to ensure the user always has somewhere to go and doesn't feel trapped as they get to the bottom of the page.
On the Contact Us Page, after a form response is submitted, the page refreshes and the user is brought to the top of the page where the navigation bar is.
As a First Time Visitor, I want to look for testimonials to understand what their users think of them and see if they are trusted. I also want to locate their social media links to see their following on social media to determine how trusted and known they are.

Once the new visitor has read the About Us and What We Do text, they will notice the Why We are Loved So Much section.
The user can also scroll to the bottom of any page on the site to locate social media links in the footer.
At the bottom of the Contact Us page, the user is told underneath the form, that alternatively they can contact the organisation on social media which highlights the links to them.
Returning Visitor Goals
As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the new programming challenges or hackathons.

These are clearly shown in the banner message.
They will be directed to a page with another hero image and call to action.
As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the best way to get in contact with the organisation with any questions I may have.

The navigation bar clearly highlights the "Contact Us" Page.
Here they can fill out the form on the page or are told that alternatively they can message the organisation on social media.
The footer contains links to the organisations Facebook, Twitter and Instagram page as well as the organization's email.
Whichever link they click, it will be open up in a new tab to ensure the user can easily get back to the website.
The email button is set up to automatically open up your email app and autofill there email address in the "To" section.
As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the Facebook Group link so that I can join and interact with others in the community.

The Facebook Page can be found at the footer of every page and will open a new tab for the user and more information can be found on the Facebook page.
Alternatively, the user can scroll to the bottom of the Home page to find the Facebook Group redirect card and can easily join by clicking the "Join Now!" button which like any external link, will open in a new tab to ensure they can get back to the website easily.
If the user is on the "Our Favourites" page they will also be greeted with a call to action button to invite the user to the Facebook group. The user is incentivized as they are told there is a weekly favourite product posted in the group.
Frequent User Goals
As a Frequent User, I want to check to see if there are any newly added challenges or hackathons.

The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the banner message.
As a Frequent User, I want to check to see if there are any new blog posts.

The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the blog link
As a Frequent User, I want to sign up to the Newsletter so that I am emailed any major updates and/or changes to the website or organisation.

At the bottom of every page their is a footer which content is consistent throughout all pages.
To the right hand side of the footer the user can see "Subscribe to our Newsletter" and are prompted to Enter their email address.
There is a "Submit" button to the right hand side of the input field which is located close to the field and can easily be distinguished.
Further Testing
The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers.
The website was viewed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, Laptop, iPhone7, iPhone 8 & iPhoneX.
A large amount of testing was done to ensure that all pages were linking correctly.
Friends and family members were asked to review the site and documentation to point out any bugs and/or user experience issues.
Known Bugs
On some mobile devices the Hero Image pushes the size of screen out more than any of the other content on the page.
A white gap can be seen to the right of the footer and navigation bar as a result.
On Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer Browsers, all links in Navbar are pushed upwards when hovering over them.

Deployment
GitHub Pages
The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps...

Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
At the top of the Repository (not top of page), locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
Alternatively Click Here for a GIF demonstrating the process starting from Step 2.
Scroll down the Settings page until you locate the "GitHub Pages" Section.
Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master Branch".
The page will automatically refresh.
Scroll back down through the page to locate the now published site link in the "GitHub Pages" section.
Forking the GitHub Repository
By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps...

Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.
Making a Local Clone
Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
Open Git Bash
Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `CI-Clone`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
Click Here to retrieve pictures for some of the buttons and more detailed explanations of the above process.

Credits
Code
The full-screen hero image code came from this StackOverflow post

Bootstrap4: Bootstrap Library used throughout the project mainly to make site responsive using the Bootstrap Grid System.

MDN Web Docs : For Pattern Validation code. Code was modified to better fit my needs and to match an Irish phone number layout to ensure correct validation. Tutorial Found Here

Content
All content was written by the developer.

Psychological properties of colours text in the README.md was found here

Media
All Images were created by the developer.
Acknowledgements
My Mentor for continuous helpful feedback.

Tutor support at Code Institute for their support.


# Memory Game based on the '70s toy, Simon.


NB 
===
Please also see:

## UX

> Use this section to provide insight into your UX process, focusing on who this website is for, what it is that they want to achieve and how your project is the best way to help them achieve these things.

> In particular, as part of this section we recommend that you provide a list of User Stories, with the following general structure:

> As a user type, I want to perform an action, so that I can achieve a goal.

This section is also where you would share links to any wireframes, mockups, diagrams etc. that you created as part of the design process. 
These files should themselves either be included as a pdf file in the project itself (in an separate directory), or just hosted elsewhere online and can be in any format that is viewable inside the browser.

1. 
2. 
3. 
Wireframes 
=



---

### 1. Strategy plane - what are you aiming for and for who
   - single player memory game with colours and sound and a means of keeping score/clear feedback as to how the player is doing
   - 1st game simply repeat the colours shown in order
   - 2nd game introduce length of note eg ch 4 theme tune "long long short long"
   - colour and sound

### 2. Scope plane - which features to include based on strategy
  
### 3. Structure plane - how is info structured and logically grouped
    
  
### 4. Skeleton plane - info presentation
   

### 5. Surface plane - finished product look like- colors, typography design element
    
---
# Features

### Existing Features

    Five features/sections and a landing page/image
    contact form


### Features Left to Implement



---

Technologies Used
=
-

---
Deployment
=
- This project has been deployed to github pages.
   

Credits
=

1. Content
- All the text on the site is my own work. Any resemblance to people (real or fictional, alive or dead) is accidental.

2. Media
- The photos used in this site were obtained from ...
 

- The audio files used in this site were obtained from ...
    

    
3. Acknowledgements
    

4. Code

Commit message:

initial set up with index.html game.html and java.js

README.md, after:

Project Example Idea 2
Build a memory game

External user’s goal:
Have fun playing the game.

Site owner's goal:
Same as the external users - make a game that you'd enjoy playing yourself.
Potential features to include:
Build a simple single-player pattern-matching memory game.

We encourage you to create your own game, by choosing a set of visual and/or auditory patterns that increase in complexity over the course of the game and challenge the player. Games that you could look at for inspiration include Simon and Bop It.

Provide users with clear explanations on how to play the game and with clear feedback on how they're doing at any stage

User Experience (UX)
### 1. Strategy plane - what are you aiming for and for who
- This is a memory game in the style of the '70s toy, Simon
### 2. Scope plane - which features to include based on strategy
|   feature              |   importance   |   feasability   |   totals  |
|:-----------------------|:---------------|:----------------|:----------|
|instructions            |4               |4                |16         |
|video/audio             |5               |4                |20         |
|score                   |5               |3                |15         |
|second game             |1               |3                |3          |
|all time highest/top ten|1               |1                |1          |

### 3. Structure plane - how is info structured and logically grouped
### 4. Skeleton plane - info presentation
### 5. Surface plane - finished product look like- colors, typography design element

# Features
### Existing Features
### Features Left to Implement


User stories
First Time Visitor Goals
Returning Visitor Goals
Frequent User Goals

Design
Colour Scheme
Typography
Imagery
Wireframes

Features

Interactive elements

Technologies Used
Languages Used
Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

Testing

W3C Markup Validator - Results
W3C CSS Validator - Results

Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section
First Time Visitor Goals
As a First Time Visitor, I want to easily understand the main purpose of the site and learn more about the organisation.

Upon entering the site, users are automatically greeted with a clean and easily readable navigation bar to go to the page of their choice. Underneath there is a Hero Image with Text and a "Learn More" Call to action button.
The main points are made immediately with the hero image
The user has two options, click the call to action buttons or scroll down, both of which will lead to the same place, to learn more about the organisation.
As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily be able to navigate throughout the site to find content.

The site has been designed to be fluid and never to entrap the user. At the top of each page there is a clean navigation bar, each link describes what the page they will end up at clearly.
At the bottom of the first 3 pages there is a redirection call to action to ensure the user always has somewhere to go and doesn't feel trapped as they get to the bottom of the page.
On the Contact Us Page, after a form response is submitted, the page refreshes and the user is brought to the top of the page where the navigation bar is.
As a First Time Visitor, I want to look for testimonials to understand what their users think of them and see if they are trusted. I also want to locate their social media links to see their following on social media to determine how trusted and known they are.

Once the new visitor has read the About Us and What We Do text, they will notice the Why We are Loved So Much section.
The user can also scroll to the bottom of any page on the site to locate social media links in the footer.
At the bottom of the Contact Us page, the user is told underneath the form, that alternatively they can contact the organisation on social media which highlights the links to them.
Returning Visitor Goals
As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the new programming challenges or hackathons.

These are clearly shown in the banner message.
They will be directed to a page with another hero image and call to action.
As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the best way to get in contact with the organisation with any questions I may have.

The navigation bar clearly highlights the "Contact Us" Page.
Here they can fill out the form on the page or are told that alternatively they can message the organisation on social media.
The footer contains links to the organisations Facebook, Twitter and Instagram page as well as the organization's email.
Whichever link they click, it will be open up in a new tab to ensure the user can easily get back to the website.
The email button is set up to automatically open up your email app and autofill there email address in the "To" section.
As a Returning Visitor, I want to find the Facebook Group link so that I can join and interact with others in the community.

The Facebook Page can be found at the footer of every page and will open a new tab for the user and more information can be found on the Facebook page.
Alternatively, the user can scroll to the bottom of the Home page to find the Facebook Group redirect card and can easily join by clicking the "Join Now!" button which like any external link, will open in a new tab to ensure they can get back to the website easily.
If the user is on the "Our Favourites" page they will also be greeted with a call to action button to invite the user to the Facebook group. The user is incentivized as they are told there is a weekly favourite product posted in the group.
Frequent User Goals
As a Frequent User, I want to check to see if there are any newly added challenges or hackathons.

The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the banner message.
As a Frequent User, I want to check to see if there are any new blog posts.

The user would already be comfortable with the website layout and can easily click the blog link
As a Frequent User, I want to sign up to the Newsletter so that I am emailed any major updates and/or changes to the website or organisation.

At the bottom of every page their is a footer which content is consistent throughout all pages.
To the right hand side of the footer the user can see "Subscribe to our Newsletter" and are prompted to Enter their email address.
There is a "Submit" button to the right hand side of the input field which is located close to the field and can easily be distinguished.
Further Testing
The Website was tested on Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, Microsoft Edge and Safari browsers.
The website was viewed on a variety of devices such as Desktop, Laptop, iPhone7, iPhone 8 & iPhoneX.
A large amount of testing was done to ensure that all pages were linking correctly.
Friends and family members were asked to review the site and documentation to point out any bugs and/or user experience issues.
Known Bugs
On some mobile devices the Hero Image pushes the size of screen out more than any of the other content on the page.
A white gap can be seen to the right of the footer and navigation bar as a result.
On Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer Browsers, all links in Navbar are pushed upwards when hovering over them.

Deployment
GitHub Pages
The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps...

Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
At the top of the Repository (not top of page), locate the "Settings" Button on the menu.
Alternatively Click Here for a GIF demonstrating the process starting from Step 2.
Scroll down the Settings page until you locate the "GitHub Pages" Section.
Under "Source", click the dropdown called "None" and select "Master Branch".
The page will automatically refresh.
Scroll back down through the page to locate the now published site link in the "GitHub Pages" section.
Forking the GitHub Repository
By forking the GitHub Repository we make a copy of the original repository on our GitHub account to view and/or make changes without affecting the original repository by using the following steps...

Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
At the top of the Repository (not top of page) just above the "Settings" Button on the menu, locate the "Fork" Button.
You should now have a copy of the original repository in your GitHub account.
Making a Local Clone
Log in to GitHub and locate the GitHub Repository
Under the repository name, click "Clone or download".
To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", copy the link.
Open Git Bash
Change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory to be made.
Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied in Step 3.
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
Press Enter. Your local clone will be created.
$ git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY
> Cloning into `CI-Clone`...
> remote: Counting objects: 10, done.
> remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
> remove: Total 10 (delta 1), reused 10 (delta 1)
> Unpacking objects: 100% (10/10), done.
Click Here to retrieve pictures for some of the buttons and more detailed explanations of the above process.

Credits
Code
The full-screen hero image code came from this StackOverflow post

Bootstrap4: Bootstrap Library used throughout the project mainly to make site responsive using the Bootstrap Grid System.

MDN Web Docs : For Pattern Validation code. Code was modified to better fit my needs and to match an Irish phone number layout to ensure correct validation. Tutorial Found Here

Content
All content was written by the developer.

Psychological properties of colours text in the README.md was found here

Media
All Images were created by the developer.
Acknowledgements
My Mentor for continuous helpful feedback.

Tutor support at Code Institute for their support.


# Memory Game based on the '70s toy, Simon.


NB 
===
Please also see:

## UX

> Use this section to provide insight into your UX process, focusing on who this website is for, what it is that they want to achieve and how your project is the best way to help them achieve these things.

> In particular, as part of this section we recommend that you provide a list of User Stories, with the following general structure:

> As a user type, I want to perform an action, so that I can achieve a goal.

This section is also where you would share links to any wireframes, mockups, diagrams etc. that you created as part of the design process. 
These files should themselves either be included as a pdf file in the project itself (in an separate directory), or just hosted elsewhere online and can be in any format that is viewable inside the browser.

1. 
2. 
3. 
Wireframes 
=



---

### 1. Strategy plane - what are you aiming for and for who
   - single player memory game with colours and sound and a means of keeping score/clear feedback as to how the player is doing
   - 1st game simply repeat the colours shown in order
   - 2nd game introduce length of note eg ch 4 theme tune "long long short long"
   - colour and sound

### 2. Scope plane - which features to include based on strategy
  
### 3. Structure plane - how is info structured and logically grouped
    
  
### 4. Skeleton plane - info presentation
   

### 5. Surface plane - finished product look like- colors, typography design element
    
---
# Features

### Existing Features

    Five features/sections and a landing page/image
    contact form


### Features Left to Implement



---

Technologies Used
=
-

---
Deployment
=
- This project has been deployed to github pages.
   

Credits
=

1. Content
- All the text on the site is my own work. Any resemblance to people (real or fictional, alive or dead) is accidental.

2. Media
- The photos used in this site were obtained from ...
 

- The audio files used in this site were obtained from ...
    

    
3. Acknowledgements
    

4. Code
